# Benefits of the Lead Contributor Role

Lead organizations within Hive NYC benefit from the role in various ways. As a lead member, you will have access to funding so that you can develop, pilot and scale ambitious, connected learning and web literacy projects with Hive NYC's vetted stakeholders and partners, including NYC DOE Office of Post Secondary Readiness and the Hive Digital Media Learning Fund. Additionally, through travel grants, Hive NYC’s online portfolio gallery, Mozilla's communication networks and the ability to participate in an extensive program of events, your ideas, concerns and discoveries will be shared and championed on the global stage. Whether you're a small start-up or a storied institution, Hive NYC provides individual educators with the opportunity to influence the future direction of learning in NYC, while amplifying the network's impact and larger goals for change.

Hive NYC enjoys a unique set of powerful assets as a learning network fueled by Mozilla's mission to promote openness, opportunity and engagement on the web. Lead contributors are able to use these assets to build the kind of trust that cultivates long-term relationships, enables youth to flourish and generates a growing body of work that demonstrates the value of connected learning. The network structure facilitates a supportive community of practice, actively engaged in creative, relevant problem-solving through making and innovation, sustained by collaboration and exchange of learning and expertise.

A more subtle but crucial benefit to being a lead member of Hive NYC is the advantage enjoyed by anyone who chooses to fully immerse themselves within a community. The lead organizations within Hive NYC are the backbone of the community, ensuring that programs undertaken uphold the values each member is committed to. As a lead member, you will enjoy multiple rewarding connections to other members in both supporting and supported roles.

The programs you pilot as a Hive NYC leader will also benefit from increased exposure in the context of Mozilla's global network. Lead projects exemplify and showcase the work Hive NYC does, representing excellence in learning innovation and acting as inspiration for educators around the world. The vantage point of a lead contributor gives you a clear perspective on the progress the community makes towards the shared goal of educational transformation.

See the [community page](http://hivenyc.org/community/) for an overview of existing members.
