# Pathways to Participation

***As a Hive NYC community member, you are encouraged to explore any and all avenues you feel will allow you to participate as fully as possible.***

Like any beehive—*in which productivity is dependent upon cooperation amongst individual bees*—the success of Hive NYC is generated by the interactions between community members. Over two hundred educators, designers, makers, artists, technologists, librarians and teachers across the five boroughs participate to help New York youth thrive.

The collaborative ethos of the network makes **social ties** between participants particularly important. The resulting interactions often involve advising, supporting, brokering relationships, exchanging expertise, co-designing solutions and sharing opportunities.

Contributors often find new colleagues and co-conspirators outside of their organizations through Hive NYC. Hive NYC HQ provides an ***innovation infrastructure*** in support of these activities, framing participation across the network.

> The practices of collaborative working and connected learning often present **learning challenges** to new members. Working open can also be an intimidating prospect, but is of immeasurable value to the community—we strive to maintain a supportive environment.

The following three general tiers of engagement with Hive NYC have been identified:
* **Explore**
 * *Use your involvement to meet, make and learn with others.*
* **Participate**
 * *Exchange expertise, get involved at events or meetings.*
* **Lead**
 * *Innovate and scale web literacy and connected learning in NYC and beyond.*

These are not prescriptive, fixed roles—they describe the [patterns of behavior observed in existing participants](http://hivenyc.org/2013/08/31/exploring-how-organizations-interface-with-hive-nyc/). Hive NYC is a self-organizing community and each member connects differently.

As many members will testify, the trajectory of contribution within Hive NYC can be [non-linear](http://hivenyc.org/2014/01/28/seven-months-hivenyc-new-member-share/). The path you take will be [unique to you and your organization](http://hivenyc.org/2014/01/28/seven-months-hivenyc-new-member-share/).

Hive educators teach, make and learn within the context of a larger, cross-disciplinary community of practice. The invitation to explore, participate (and eventually lead) within the network recognizes the myriad ways that individuals like you can contribute to, and benefit from, Hive NYC.

Are you interested in contributing to the community?
Fill out the [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1dWGAELcYQUWvjGmeh-VTPWbaxb7C3J5dp4lzSJsm-Gw)!
